Started 12 May 2020

<><><><><><><><><><>
12 May 2020 comments

Really coming along! I think we could (and should) work up a really tight outline, which should make the paper quick to write. But it means lingering and iterating on the outline a while more. 

I suggest we focus efforts next on the intro and results, and then, after those are sorted, tackle the discussion)

Currently I think we have all the info we want in the intro (perhaps too much) but we haven't made it as interesting or relevant as we need to for the reader. An average reader has to read though a LOT of info before s/he knows why. Here are my suggestions to work on this:
(1) Go through and check for any repetitive info then cut it back so you say most points once. For example, 2a, 2d, 2e, 4c are all fairly similar -- perhaps some can be cut or combined? 
(2) Make sure your paragraphs stay on topic. 1 seems good but see notes below on the others.
(3) Go through and make sure the reader knows why they are being told things; make relevant important bits and cut non-relevant ones. 

Paragraph 2 though covers: definition of false springs, then how long they take to defoliate, then the ecosystem impacts of false springs, then back to length of refoliation, then ends with why to care (2g, which is very good). I think a better order could be to define false springs, say that they have big ecosystem consequences and  so are really important. You could save the point about lengthening DVR for later I think. Paragraph 3 should be about how chilling may complicate forecasts -- this seems like a good flow for the reader, but the paragraph is mostly about eco to endo dormancy and the reader is not told why. Here's an alternative option, but you could also try to stick with your formulation if you keep it quick *and* tell the reader why to care:

(a) Warmer winters directly impact one of the  major cues plants use to time budburst: over-winter cold temperatures (chilling), (in addition to warming spring temperatures (forcing) and longer daylengths).
(b) Many temperate plants have evolved chilling requirements to avoid leafout during warm snaps in the middle of the winter, but with climate change chilling requirements may not be met. 
(c) If chilling is not met plants may leaf out much slower or incompletely, which can in turn effect freeze tolerance. 
(d) Thus, understanding the interplay of warming winters and false spring risk is critical for under- standing how temperate forests will change in the future.

Next I think you need a paragraph or section that says, 'this interaction between winter chilling and false springs may be especially critical as the plant community level as species have likely evolved along a trade-off of risking spring frosts for early access to resources.' You have a lot of the info for this in 5-6 now, you just need to re-work it to guide the reader more. For example, your point about young trees needs to be connected to forest recruitment for readers to follow why you explained this difference. 

7 is good, but should be re-written to focus on questions and less on methods.

For the results, overall you are REALLY GOOD at phrasing your results as biology, it's brilliant! So I think we just need to tighten up order and emphasis. I think we should discuss more but a few points now:
- Lead with phenology, including DVR, then rank (with rank as a subpoint)
- I agree that 'false springs effected physical leaf traits' but I am not sure I see so clearly how 'false springs impacted growth.' Your points a-c cast a more complex story than the header. Also, it seems interesting to me that the false springs create a lot of meristem damage but this does NOT translate into big biomass effects, is this an accurate interpretation? if so, is it consistent across species or do some species seem to really suffer from meristem damage through the season while others do not? 
- I wonder if you should do phenology, leaf traits, growth, and then species differences as a paragraph or two (not sure if rank fits in species differences or phenology, but I could see a species differences section that start with the consistency of rank then focuses in on some the interesting species-specific growth and leaf trait findings that could impact species interactions). 


Smaller notes:

INTRO:

Note on this:

With decreased freezing tolerance, plants are susceptible to damage to leaf tissue, canopy dieback, xylem embolism and injury to the shoot apical meristem, all of which could greatly reduce a plant’s ability to recover for the remainder of the growing season or even survive until the next season (Sakai & Larcher, 1987; Gu et al., 2008).

I am not sure if you need this, it's confusing to a reader as it suggests these things are separate from false springs, but are they? We need to pretty clear for the reader.

METHODS:

- Since Fagus and Nyssa were tossed just because of how they were received I would remove all mention of them from the paper, or say 'FG and NS were originally included in the design but were received as such and such so excluded henceforth from the experiment). But make sure they are removed, they are still in Chlorophyll content in supp.
- For now I would see if you can have room for Fig S1 to be Fig 1 and then you can save some text on explaining that.
- Remove all URLs for products, they don't last the test of time and what really matters is accuracy so add the precision (scale works to mg or what level is finest?) of the instruments for calipers (not needed for during oven).


Supp:
- Make sure we have consistent models between supp and freezexp_muoutput_manual.xlsx. 


<><><><><><><><><><>